Well now we're to the point in the process where we can begin adding some color to the character.
Let's go back to the layout tab.
And well he can't see him at all.
So I think what the problem is here is if we hit the division key on the number pad we can bring him
back.
It looks like that in the beta version I'm using now a blender 2.8 the local mode seems to be getting
kind of confused between the different tabs but that's OK.
We can bring him back.
Let's now go over to the shading tab and let's give this character a material at least a new material.
We have one here.
That's the UVA Test Pattern and although that looks pretty cool.
Let's go ahead and remove it by coming over here to the materials panel and let's hit the minus button
here to remove that.
Let's go ahead and create a new material here and we'll just call this character let's do that.
So now with this one material let's go ahead and create all the different colors using textures.
So let's come over here to the texture paint tab right here.
And currently you can see it's just pink because here in the texture paint tab or texture paint mode
here it's going to be using a texture over here to give it color.
And currently we don't have anything here.
So what we need to do is add a new texture slot and that can be done right over here in this active
tool tab.
Now if you don't see anything over here when you click on this tab you can just come over here and maybe
click on one of the texture paint buttons.
And this information should pop up then.
But let's go ahead and create a new texture slot or click the plus button here and we'll choose based
color.
There we go.
Now character based color it's a pretty good name.
I think I'm gonna make this texture pretty big.
This currently is at 1 k.
I think I'm gonna make it 4 K just because that gives me more pixels more resolution to paint on.
But in the end if we ever need to take it down if we ever need to save it out as a lower resolution
is to K or 1 k we can always take it into creator and save it as a new file.
So here in these fields I'm just going to type in Asterix for and then hit enter and that will multiply
that current number by for so we can add simple mathematic formulas in there.
I'm not gonna click here and take the color all the way down to black and then I'll click.
OK and there we go.
So there is our texture on our character.
We're then going to add the color on top of this.
Let's go ahead and add that texture over here I'll pull down the menu and choose that character based
color here and there it is.
And then what I'm going to do is I'm going to come over here to image and you see how we have an asterix
here.
If I click image I'm going to click save as.
And we can save this image right here to the harddrive because currently the way blender handles 2D
images.
This hasn't yet been saved to the hard drive.
It's in memory.
But even if we save blender and then close out of Blender this will still just go away.
So we need to come over here to image save as and I'm going to take it into my textures folder that
I've created and character based color once again is a pretty good name for it and I'll click save as
image.
All right.
So now you can see there's no Asterix here by the image menu and that's good.
That means we've saved it to the hard drive and from now on we can just click this button over here
to save the image.
But we needed to go through that process to save it to the drive initially.
All right.
So let's bring in a reference image right over here I'm a click and drag and bring in an image or create
an image editor.
We have the UVA map here so let's click view and uncheck display texture paint you these.
And we go now go to image and open and let's go find in our reference images.
This guy right here so I just want to sample the hair color and the head color for our texture map here.
So I'm going to hit the one key to go to the front view just because I think it's easier to work like
this.
And I'm just going to fill these colors.
So for the yellow and the brown I just want to fill the colors to get just the base colors applied.
So let's begin with the hair here what I'm gonna do is I'm a select this guy right here this face selection
masking I'm going to click that.
And then what I want to do is d select everything.
So many press Alt A and that D selects everything.
So we had everything selected before when we turned this on.
Now we can do is hover over a piece of the model and push the L key and that will select just that piece
and we go.
So now what I want to do is fill this to do that.
I want to come over to the fill tool right here but there we go.
I want to take the strength up to 100 percent so we can do that here or over here.
I'll go in and click and drag there.
We want to sample our color so going to scroll down here and I'll click on the color swatch here and
then I'll click on the eyedropper right here and let's sample this color maybe right here you can see
it there.
Now in case I want to go back to this color so I don't lose it when I choose another color.
I'm going to twirl the color palette thing down here.
Click new and create a new color palette.
Now I can hit the plus and it will be saved right there.
So that's good.
That's what we want.
Now let's come over here with that Phil brush selected and just click on the hair and there we go.
Now we've got our color applied just to the hair and you can see it come in to the 2D image over here
as well.
All right.
So we have the hair done.
Let's go ahead and scroll up and click save all images and that takes away the Asterix from the image
menu there.
I'm going to pass out a to D select and also let's just go over to object mode here and go over to our
look div here and we can see the hair color the way we have it currently.
Yeah that looks pretty good.
So let's go back to texture paint mode here and with our face selection still on let's come over here
and hover over the head at the El key and you can see here now even though I selected the head it didn't
select all of it.
And that's because we created seams when we did the movie map.
So if I hit the tab key here in edit mode you can see all of the seams and now that we're all done with
the movie map we can take away these seams without any problem.
So let's press the A key and then press control e and let's choose clear seam.
And there we go.
So now if we go back to texture paint I'll just hit the tab key and now what let's do is hover over
the head.
Press the L key and you can see it selects the whole head.
And let's go ahead and press all over the two hands as well there.
And now with the Phil brush still selected Let's scroll down here.
Oh I lost my image here.
Let me pull the menu down and select that image again.
There we go.
Let me select the color swatch the eyedropper and select this yellow color right here.
I'll add it to the palette right there.
And then let's come over here and just click on the head and that adds that there.
All right.
So there we've got the beginnings of our color map in the next video we'll continue on with the rest
of the body.